Title: Gutsy Gibbon
Date: 2007-04-12 09:58
Author: Monika Eggers
Tags: Kubuntu
Slug: gutsy-gibbon

Wie Mark Shuttlewort heute in einer eMail mitgeteilt hat, wird die für
den Herbst diesen Jahres geplante \*ubuntu Version "Gutsy Gibbon"
(Mutiger Gibbon) heißen. \*ubuntu 7.10 wird keine LTS (Long Term
Support) Version sein, Ziel ist aber dennoch, auch mit dieser
Veröffentlichung eine stabile Serverumgebung zu bieten. Dazu wird sehr
viel Wert darauf gelegt werden, den Installationsvorgang von \*ubuntu
möglichst einfach und funktional zu gestalten. Shuttleworth hält sich in
seiner Ankündigung zum Thema Compiz/Beryl zurück, allerdings begreift er
die 3D Desktop Effekte als eine große Chance, mit der die Gemeinschaft
der Freien Software eine Führungsrolle einnehmen könnte. Im Klartext
bedeutet dies wohl, dass er abermals fordern wird, Compiz/Beryl in die
Standardinstallation aufzunehmen. Die Archive für Gutsy sollen bereits
an dem Tag geöffnet werden, an dem \*ubuntu 7.04 "Feisty Fawn"
erscheinen wird. Gutsy Gibbon war als Name für Version 7.10 nicht
unumstritten, denn es stand daneben auch noch "Glossy Gnu" zur
Diskussion. Das Gnu ist im Logo der "Free Software Foundation" zu
finden, die mit diesem Namen für ihre Arbeit geehrt werden sollte.
Möglicherweise entsteht aus dieser Diskussion eine neue Variante der
Distribution unter dem Namen "Glossy Gnu", die vollständig auf unfreie
Komponenten verzichten wird.


<!--break--><!--break-->


*Hier der Text im Original:*


"Folks, allow me to introduce the Gutsy Gibbon, who will be succeeding
the Feisty Fawn as the focus of our development love in a few short
weeks, for release in October 2007.


The Gibbon won the G-race to be our engineering mascot for this next
release, but it was a close run. We very much wanted to honour the
tremendous contributions of the GNU project to Free Software by awarding
the role to the Glossy Gnu. This prompted an intense internal debate
about trademarks, at which both the Fiery Fox and the Icy Weasel were
heard. In the end, however, the judge, jury and elocutionary (that would
be me) took a liking to the Gibbon's extraordinary reach, and the Gibbon
won outright.


The Glossy Gnu will nonetheless play a role in this next release,
because Ubuntu 7.10 will feature a new flavour - as yet unnamed -which
takes an ultra-orthodox view of licensing: no firmware, drivers,
imagery, sounds, applications, or other content which do not include
full source materials and come with full rights of modification,remixing
and redistribution. There should be no more conservative home,for those
who demand a super-strict interpretation of the "free" in free software.
This work will be done in collaboration with the folks behind Gnewsense.


Our Gutsy is an expert in brachiation, which is apt for a project that
needs to navigate a complicated forest of branches very quickly.


Some folks would say that any monkey can install Ubuntu (and sadly,
other folks would say that many have), but the Gibbon will take easy
installation to a whole new level, with work on an
unattended-installation infrastructure in Ubiquity that makes it trivial
to roll out Ubuntu desktops across an organization while getting on with
other, more complicated stuff such as Windows service pack installations
on legacy desktops.


While Ubuntu is by no means the 800-pound gorilla in the server game,
the Gibbon will show that lean and mean count for something! Agility of
deployment, together with integrated management will be a focus for the
Ubuntu server team. Gutsy will not be an LTS (Long Term Support)release,
but it will nonetheless see a lot of server work and be useful for
fast-moving server deployments.


On a personal note, the monkey on my back has been composite-by-default,
which I had hoped would happen in Edgy, then Feisty. I'm nervous to
predict it now for Gutsy, for fear of a third strike, but I'm told that
great work is being done in the Compiz/Beryl community and upstream in
X. There's a reasonable chance that Gutsy will deliver where those
others have not. I remain convinced that malleable, transparent and
extra-dimensional GUI's are a real opportunity for the free software
community to take a lead in the field of desktop innovation, and am keen
to see the underlying technologies land in Ubuntu, but we have to
balance that enthusiasm with the Technical Board's judgement of the
stability and maturity of those fundamental layers.


Of course, the real work of deciding Gutsy's goals will happen at
UDS-Sevilla, May 5-11 in the wonderful Andalucia, Spain. I hope many of
you will be joining us for some hard work and also, no doubt, a fair bit
of monkey business! As usual we will be running a semi-virtual summit,
open for participation by VoIP and real-time online editing of the
blueprints for Gutsy Gibbon. If you have items you want on the agenda,
please make sure they are in the Ubuntu blueprints list:


-   <https://launchpad.net/ubuntu>


...and then also nominate them for discussion at UDS-Sevilla! Please
only do this if you intend to participate in the developer summit -
either in person or virtually - so that you can present your ideas and
collaborate with the other developers. The summit should be a great
combination of hard work planning Gutsy, presentations from cutting edge
upstreams on their own plans for this next six months, and some time in
the sun for R&R in the best tradition of the region. For those of you
who can't make it across the Atlantic, we hope to see you for Gutsy+1 at
UDS-Boston in the first week of November.


Now that the Fawn has found her legs, and is ready for her debut on
April 19th, we need to lay some foundations for Gutsy. In the next few
days we will open up a limited-upload target for Gutsy and start
uploading toolchain packages there. Our aim is to open Gutsy for general
upload on the same day that Feisty is released. Wherever you are, that
will be a day for celebration. Go ape!


Mark"


Die Nachricht kann
[hier](http://forum.kubuntu-de.org/index.php?topic=8246)im Forum
diskutiert werden.



