Title: Interview with Kubuntu developer Jonathan Thomas
Date: 2009-04-23 19:28
Author: Monika Eggers
Tags: English
Slug: interview-with-kubuntu-developer-jonathan-thomas

[![](http://wiki.kubuntu-de.org/images/Jonathan_thomas.png)]{.inline .inline-right}  

Once again kubuntu-de.org interviewed a developer. This time we talked
with Jonathan (JontheEchidna) Thomas. The Kubuntu developer and Ninja
reported about the development cycle of Kubuntu "Jaunty Jackalope",
which has been released today. Further he gave a little insight on
"Karmic Koala", the future release of Kubuntu, which is announced for
this year's october.


**kubuntu-de.org**: Hi Jonathan, you are quite new in the team of
kubuntu-devs. Tell us a little bit about yourself?


**Jonathan**: Hi, I am a 17 year-old student living in New Hampshire,
which is a state in the northeastern part of the United States of
America. (Quite close to Canada) As a student, I am busy a lot of the
time with school. But, in my spare time, I like to contribute to various
open-source projects such as Kubuntu (foremost) and KDE. (I am currently
developing a Plasma wallpaper plugin that sets a wallpaper based on the
weather at your specified location) I started contributing to Kubuntu
right after Hardy was released, and have been steadily contributing to
Kubuntu from the Intrepid release cycle to the present.


<!--break--><!--break-->

**kubuntu-de.org**: We'll come back to becoming a MOTU later, now it is
time to talk about Kubuntu 9.04 the "Jaunty Jackalope". How was the
release cycle? Have there been special problems?


**Jonathan**: I'd describe this release cycle as intense. We've been
able to include a lot of great, updated software this cycle that include
some neat features and polishes existing features at the same time.
Unfortunately, this cycle the graphics drivers for Intel video cards
have been a bit more problematic in the past. This is about the biggest
problem I've seen with Kubuntu 9.04 so far, and I'd recommend that users
who have Intel cards testdrive the live cd for a bit before deciding
whether to upgrade or not. Fortunately, the nVidia drivers have gotten
better, with performance being far more acceptable in KDE4 and Firefox.


**kubuntu-de.org**: There was a plan to get a KDE 3 free installation
CD. Was this goal met?


**Jonathan**: Not quite. :( Unfortunately OpenOffice hasn't been able to
deliver working KDE4 integration in the latest releases. K3b also isn't
at a point where the KDE 4 port is mature enough to replace the KDE3
version. But otherwise it is very much KDE 3-free. The average user
should not encounter any out-of-place-looking KDE3 components other than
OpenOffice and K3b.


**kubuntu-de.org**: So, whats new in Jaunty? Intrepid has KDE 4.2
packages in backports, why should I upgrade?


**Jonathan**: Hehe, good question. Aside from the general package
updates, Kubuntu 9.04 also offers some nice new features. If speed's
your thing, then Kubuntu 9.04 will deliver in this area. The Ubuntu
dudes have done a great job reducing startup time. In addition, Qt 4.5
(The underlying framework of KDE) has received some major speedups which
should make the entire experience feel snappier. We have a new default
package manager, KpackageKit, which has better search functionality than
Adept. Restricted package notification also returns in this release.


If you do not have the proper multimedia codecs installed when you try
to play an MP3 for instance, the restricted component notifier will
present you with the option of installing the packages so that you're
MP3's will work. This may not be too compelling of a feature if you
already have a Kubuntu 8.10 installation with all of that stuff already
set up, but for new installations it is very handy. Speaking of new
installations, the Kubuntu installer has been given a makeover,
receiving a new timezone map and nifty bars in the partitioner that give
a visualization of how your disk will be cut up. I think that a lot of
the improvements to Kubuntu will be noticeable only for fresh
installations, but I also think that the other improvements will make
the overall Kubuntu experience smoother.


**kubuntu-de.org**: We realized that you are a plasma hacker now. That
weather wallpaper thing is really cool. Not busy enough?


**Jonathan**: Eheh, I guess impulsively deciding to just go and code a
weather wallpaper plugin during the final weeks of Kubuntu 9.04
development might be just a little bit crazy. It's now become a part of
KDE and will be available for installation in KDE 4.3, which is really
cool. I guess this gives me an excuse to advertise a bit, so I guess
I'll have to link to the project's page:
<http://kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=102185>. It has packages
for Kubuntu 9.04, so I guess that's another reason to upgrade. :P


**kubuntu-de.org**: How would you describe the relationship between
upstream and the Kubuntu devs. We are thinking about Quassel, there
seems to be great feedback?


**Jonathan**: Oh yeah, I am confident that both parties believe that the
relations between Kubuntu and Quassel have been mutually beneficial. I
can't speak for the Quassel guys, but I find it rather impressive that
the feedback Celeste gave the Quassel team resulted directly in making
Quassel very easy to use for the average user. It transformed a
somewhat-obscure, advanced IRC client with a somewhat steep learning
curve into an equally powerful IRC client that is also appropriate for
the average user and his or her needs.


**kubuntu-de.org**: We can't wait to get Jaunty released, but the next
release is also planned and it will be called "Karmic Koala". Is the K
in there a special incentive for you?


**Jonathan**: I think I'd give it the same amount of work even if it was
named “Giggling Gnome”, but I think that the K in there is pretty neat.


**kubuntu-de.org**: Are there any plans to make koffice 2 the default
office-suite in karmic?


**Jonathan**: I know that replacing OpenOffice with Koffice would make a
lot of us happy. I t's hard to know whether we will be able to, though.
The Koffice developers themselves say that Koffice 2.0 will not be able
to replace OpenOffice in terms of functionality. I can say that it will
be considered, since OpenOffice is somewhat huge and replacing it with
Koffice would free up more room on the CD for other cool software. I
wouldn't be too optimistic though.


**kubuntu-de.org**: So you are planning to take part in karmic's release
cycle?


**Jonathan**: Yes, definitely.


**kubuntu-de.org**: You are a Kubuntu Ninja. Can you tell us about being
a Kubuntu Ninja?


**Jonathan**: I could tell you, but then I would have to kill you, as
the saying goes. Being a Kubuntu Ninja really just means that you are
crazier than the average Kubuntu dev, and that each month you
participate in a packaging spree to update the KDE packages to the
latest released version. Harald “apachelogger” Sitter has done great
work making the process as automated as possible. Give him a hug the
next time you see him.


**kubuntu-de.org**: We're looking forward to it. Give us some tips to
get in touch with kubuntu development. How to become a MOTU or a Ninja,
where is help needed:


**Jonathan**: The best places to get in touch with a Kubuntu person
would be in the \#kubuntu-devel channel on Freenode IRC. The
kubuntu-devel mailing list is also a great way to get in touch with us.
If becoming a MOTU is what you want to do, then I'd recommend reading
this page: <https://wiki.kubuntu.org/MOTU/GettingStarted> The fine folks
in \#kubuntu-devel and \#ubuntu-motu would be happy to help you with any
questions you may have.


If packaging's not your thing, we also always need help triaging the bug
reports we receive. Kubuntu advocacy in your community is also always a
good way to help. Even jumping on IRC to help users who come in having
problems is a great way to help. (It's how I started, actually)


**kubuntu-de.org**: Thank you for this interview and your work on
Kubuntu.


**Jonathan**: No problem. I just hope my writing style translates well
to German. ;-)



