Title: Kubuntu-de.org at FrOSCon 2008
Date: 2008-09-09 20:24
Author: Monika Eggers
Tags: English
Slug: kubuntu-deorg-at-froscon-2008

[[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/003_4.img_assist_custom.jpg){.image
.image-img_assist_custom width="151"
height="113"}](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/bilder/events/froscon-2008#img2)]{.inline
.inline-right}On this year's August 23rd and 24th the [Bonn-Rhein-Sieg
University for Applied
Sciences](http://www.fh-brs.de/Home-lang-en.html "http://www.fh-brs.de/Home-lang-en.html")
hosted
"[FrOSCon](http://www.froscon.de/index.php?L=1 "http://www.froscon.de/index.php?L=1")"
for the third time in a row, a convention about all topics related to
free software. Once again Kubuntu-de.org was there this year to
represent the German Kubuntu community as well as Kubuntu itself. The
first batch of our team already arrived on Friday, prior to the opening,
to set everything up and make preparations. Dinner with the folks from
[KDE](http://www.kde.org) and [Amarok](http://amarok.kde.org) at the
Asian restaurant adjacent to the hotel and the subsequent informal
meeting in the hotel's bar helped us get in the mood for the convention
weekend.

</p>
### Saturday

</p>
Early the next day the event itself began and just like the year before
Kubuntu was thematically placed in between Amarok and KDE. Both projects
presented brand new software, like an up to date development snapshot of
KDE4 or the just released first beta version of the popular music player
Amarok 2.

</p>
<!--break--><!--break-->

[[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/012_5.img_assist_custom.jpg){.image
.image-img_assist_custom width="151"
height="113"}](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/bilder/events/froscon-2008#img11)]{.inline
.inline-right}Of course we had lots to show as well: thanks to the
ShipIt program we could once more hand out CDs to people interested in
Kubuntu and there really seems to be a never ending demand for these
"original" Kubuntu CDs. Furthermore and in addition to the current
stable version of Kubuntu we showed off the development version 8.10 on
a netbook, to demonstrate that KDE and Kubuntu can be utilized flexibly.

</p>
Our personal highlight that day was being featured in a radio interview
from [Radio Tux](http://cms.radiotux.de/ "http://cms.radiotux.de/") on
Kubuntu and the project Kubuntu-de.org. We were obviously happy about
the chance to present ourselves like this, and Christian Mangold (aka
neversfelde) as well as Monika Krug (aka Monika|K) used the opportunity
to tell folks about us and Kubuntu. You can
[download](http://cms.radiotux.de/index6.php "http://cms.radiotux.de/index6.php")
the interview (German) from the Radio Tux website.

</p>
### Saturday Night

</p>
[[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/013_5.img_assist_custom.jpg){.image
.image-img_assist_custom width="151"
height="113"}](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/bilder/events/froscon-2008#img12)]{.inline
.inline-right}The end of the first day drew nearer and the anticipation
about the already legendary "Social Event" began to rise. Of course we
had been well provided for the whole day, since the organizers supplied
food and drink continuously. We'd have to say that we were very well
looked after, and thanks a lot for that!

</p>
The social event itself consisted of barbecue and the consumption of a
certain beer imitate ("Kölsch"), which ─ not least because of the very
small glasses in which it is served ─ was regarded sceptically at first,
but then consumed in growing quantities. Lots of conversations
developed, often with members of other projects.

</p>
### Sunday

</p>
[[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/021_4.img_assist_custom.jpg){.image
.image-img_assist_custom width="151"
height="113"}](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/bilder/events/froscon-2008?page=1#img4)]{.inline
.inline-right}On the next day the interest in what we had to show didn't
decline. While part of the team took care of the guests at our booth the
others headed over to the KDE Dev area, to present a closer look at
Amarok 2, Kubuntu and Kubuntu-de.org to a smaller audience.

</p>
That's where Lydia Pintscher (Nightrose) and Sven Krolhas (sven423) held
a presentation about Amarok 2. Marcus Czeslinski (Czessi) introduced
Kubuntu, first by talking about its history and then by giving an
extensive tour around the system. Ways how to get involved in Kubuntu
development were shown as well. Finally Thomas David (nemphis) gave an
account on the development of our community from its beginnings to the
present day.

</p>
### Keynotes and Talks

</p>
In addition to the attendance of many great open source projects,
FrOSCon is remarkable for the extensive schedule of presentations from a
wide range of topics. Since we had shown up as a large group we were
able to keep our booth occupied and at the same time let interested
members visit particular events. So it is worth one's while to help us
represent the community and Kubuntu at FrOSCon 2009, since you won't
have to take care of the booth the whole time, you can visit the
presentations and events as well.

</p>
Surely this year's highlights were the keynotes held by popular
speakers.

</p>
[[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/009_5.img_assist_custom.jpg){.image
.image-img_assist_custom width="151"
height="113"}](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/bilder/events/froscon-2008#img8)]{.inline
.inline-right}On Saturday the enthusiastic Linux critic, operating
system developer and inventor of Minix, Andrew S. Tanenbaum, delighted
his audience with a well-founded and highly interesting presentation
about Minix. Vividly fashioned, his contribution often linked to Linux
and Windows topics.

</p>
On the same day Sebastian Kügler held his well attended presentation
about KDE4, where he also showed off the current development version.

</p>
On Sunday PHP inventor Rasmus Lerdorf took the stage and talked about
scalability, performance and security of PHP. He, too, delivered an
entertaining presentation in which he criticized several frameworks and
recommended certain development techniques.

</p>
Last but not least Lenz Grimmer's presentation in the early morning has
to be mentioned, where he gave an introduction to Bazaar.

</p>
### Conclusion

</p>
To sum it up, the world of free software was represented well and the
growing circle of people interested in its products was given a great
chance to have a closer look. Also, with about 1200 visitor attending
FroSCOn finally joins the ranks of the bigger conventions about free and
open source software. It was quite the successful event for us and
therefore for Kubuntu as a whole, and rest assured that we will gladly
return in 2009 when FrOSCon will be held on **22. and 23. of August**.
See you there!

</p>
Also see: [FrOSCon 2008
gallery](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/bilder/events/froscon-2008 "http://www.kubuntu-de.org/bilder/events/froscon-2008")

</p>

