Title: Limber up the wiki for Kubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex and KDE 4!
Date: 2008-10-27 18:25
Author: Monika Eggers
Tags: English
Slug: limber-up-the-wiki-for-kubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex-and-kde-4

The countdown to the release of Kubuntu Intrepid Ibex and the automatic
change-over to KDE 4 is heating up! What should the user expect? What
will be different? What has changed? What is to consider? How can I make
the transition? Shall I wait?


To answer these questions we call for participation and we will reward
it! Lots of users around kubuntu-de.org got their experience with KDE 4
on Hardy and some may have tested pre-versions of Intrepid Ibex, too. We
call on those and every one interested: write an (or more than one if
you like) article in the wiki to one of many proposed topics and get the
chance to win a T-Shirt, a mug or a mouse pad from KDE. For each
finished article, a piece of news on the portal will be published.


<!--break--><!--break-->

The requirements are low: joy in writing, zest for Kubuntu, fun in
experimenting with applications and settings as well as some time, an
installed KDE 4, though Intrepid Ibex RC would be best and also an
wiki/forum account at kubuntu-de.org is required to get started. The
articles have to be written in German, since we are the German speaking
Kubuntu community.


How can I participate?


-   Take one of the proposed
    [topics](http://wiki.kubuntu-de.org/Team:Redaktion/ArtikelKDE4Themen "http://wiki.kubuntu-de.org/Team:Redaktion/ArtikelKDE4Themen")
    
    
-   Fill in your name in the template
    
    
-   Just do it ;)
    
    


But, but...!?


-   I have no knowledge in how to use the wiki? Other questions?

    
    -   Ask in the IRC channel \#kubuntu-de.org on irc.freenode.net
        
        
    -   or ask in the
        [forum](http://forum.kubuntu-de.org "http://forum.kubuntu-de.org")
        
        
    -   or mail
        [Blizzz](mailto:blizzz@kubuntu-de.org "mailto:blizzz@kubuntu-de.org")
        
        

    
    
-   How shall the article look like?

    
    -   A structure is proposed, you'll find it in the template
        
        
    -   You surely can customize it to your needs
        
        

    
    
-   I'd like to write about XYZ instead!

    
    -   No Problem! Just respect the [wiki
        rules](http://wiki.kubuntu-de.org/Regeln_f%C3%BCr_die_Arbeit_im_Wiki "http://wiki.kubuntu-de.org/Regeln_für_die_Arbeit_im_Wiki")
        
        
    -   If you don't know how to do it ask as described above
        
        

    
    
-   What if I want to write two or even more articles?

    
    -   No Problem! When your current one is finished, don't hesitate to
        choose another topic
        
        

    
    


You can join at any time, although the *deadline* for taking part in the
challenge is **one month after the release of Intrepid Ibex** (30th
November 2008, 8.10pm CET, i.e. 7.10pm UTC). This promotion is guided by
Arthur Schiwon
([blizzz](http://wiki.kubuntu-de.org/Benutzer:Blizzz "http://wiki.kubuntu-de.org/Benutzer:Blizzz")), who can be contacted via common communication ways (IRC, Mail,
Jabber).


The judges are Lydia Pintscher (Nightrose), Harald Sitter (apachelogger)
and Ingo Malchow (neverendingo). They will have a look at the articles
and elect the winning ones after the deadline. Following, the lucky
writers will be contacted. Prizes are not transferable or redeemable for
cash. Kubuntu-de.org and its members, as well as the judges disclaim any
legal or other consequences.


**Update:** Extented until Jan, 31.



