Title: Reflections of the LinuxTag 2008
Date: 2008-07-12 08:03
Author: Monika Eggers
Tags: English
Slug: reflections-of-the-linuxtag-2008

<div class="content">


<address>
**Note:** Das Original in deutsch ist
[hier](../../../../nachrichten/veranstaltungen/nachlese-linuxtag-2008)
zu finden (The german original can be found
[here](../../../../nachrichten/veranstaltungen/nachlese-linuxtag-2008) )
</address>



</div>


LinuxTag 2008 in Berlin is over. 11,600 people from 31 countries
attended it - more than the year before. The concurrent International
Aeronautic Exhibition (Internationale Luftfahrtausstellung, ILA) was a
strong competitor, as was the weather. At 30°C many people opted for the
lakes rather than the air-conditioned halls.


[![Funkturm
Berlin](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/001_4.thumbnail.jpg "Funkturm Berlin"){.image
.image-thumbnail width="75"
height="100"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/001)
[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/032_3.thumbnail.jpg){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="75"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/032) [![Kubuntu
Stand](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/008_4.thumbnail.jpg "Kubuntu Stand"){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="75"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/008)
[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/009_4.thumbnail.jpg){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="75"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/009) [![Kubuntu
Stand](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/010_4.thumbnail.jpg "Kubuntu Stand"){.image
.image-thumbnail width="67"
height="100"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/010)


The following chronological account shows the Linuxtag from the
perspective of Kubuntu. We can only mention a small selection of the
exhibitors, lectures and workshops. But we will tell you about the
evenings after the exposition closed, which we spent mostly with Amarok
and KDE.


<!--break--><!--break-->

[[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/003_3.thumbnail.jpg){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="75"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/003)]{.inline
.inline-right}Tuesday, day 0, setup: At noon we started construction
work at our booth on the exposition site. Around 3 p.m. we got the keys
for our rental vacation apartment and filled the fridge with beverages.
One by one everybody arrived. A few of us went back to the exposition
site to meet the Amarok team and Stephan (\\sh) to do some more setup
work at the booth we shared. All the needed material was there, like
switches, cables, kubuntu-de.org business cards and flyers, posters,
blue table cloths and so on. But no Kubuntu CDs! Paul Sladen called
Canonical or rather the company responsible for sending the CDs and was
promised they would be sent by express. Later, Kubuntu, Amarok and KDE
met in the Brauhaus Lemke, a restaurant at the Hackische Markt, where
Sebastian Kügler (sebas) and Aaron Seigo (aseigo) were already waiting.
During eating and drinking we got to know each other and into the mood
for the next days.


[[![A.
Seigo](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/022_4.thumbnail.jpg "A. Seigo"){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="75"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/022)]{.inline
.inline-right}Wednesday, day 1: A long time before the exhibition began
at 9 a.m., Kubuntu and Amarok were at the booth to give it the last
touch. After having finished all the cabling and wiring, all the
notebooks were connected. The most important thing is to have internet,
after all ;-) . Then the exposition started slowly, it was fairly calm
and there was not overly much to do. But that was also because we had a
lot of people staffing the booth. Highlight of the day was the keynote
by Aaron Seigo, which gave its listeners appetite for more and should
enable everybody to compile KDE 4.1. The rush to see KDE 4 was so big
that our installations were not enough and some of our notebooks were
booted from live CDs.


During the day, the CDs finally arrived! Only one box for 32-bit and
64-bit each, both with KDE 3.5, and a hand full of KDE 4 (32-bit only)
CDs, but better than nothing. However, not enough to spread them out and
have every bypasser grab one, we "hid" them and only gave them to people
who asked for one. Otherwise there would not have been left any on day
2, from last year's experience.


Marc (serenity), member of the Kubuntu-de.org team, interviewed
Sebastian Kügler of KDE e.V. together with RadioTux. Because the time
was too short, Marc asked some more questions afterwards. The evening
was spent at an Indian restaurant.


[[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/051_2.thumbnail.jpg){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="75"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/051)]{.inline
.inline-right}Thursday, day 2: Everything continued to run smoothly at
our booth. We were also able to collect some donations. We had a couple
of interesting visitors like teachers and people responsible for the IT
in their company. There were interesting talks about ODF, a series about
OpenOffice, and Till Adam from KDE gave one about Kontact ("Best for
both worlds"). The highlight of the day was the Social Event. Like last
year it took part in the former electric power transformation station in
Berlin-Kreuzberg. Besides the large buffet there was also barbecue
outside. Unfortunately the queue for the food was extremely long, but
luckily not the one for the drinks. During the evening we had a nice
conversation with Aaron Seigo and we also got into contact with other
projects. We all spent a very nice evening and at 3:30 a.m. the last of
us were politely asked to go home.


[[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/095_1.thumbnail.jpg){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="67"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/095)]{.inline
.inline-right}Friday, day 3: The sun burned down, but thanks to the air
conditining we could enjoy this special day, because one of the lecture
rooms was reserved to KDE on this day. From 10 a.m. to exhibition close
at 7 p.m. there were many talks about KDE. It started with Sebastian
Kügler (sebas), who was followed by Aaron Seigo (aseigo) and introduced
the development of KDE as well as explosive new features. Then came Till
Adam, who showed us the advantages of Akonadi. After the lunch break
Ellen Reitmayr from KDE and OpenUsability.org followed. She explained
what Usability means and what improvements KDE4 brought about regarding
this matter. Then Franz Keferböck presented KOffice2 with some of its
extremely great new features. In his talk the usability theme was
clearly noticeable as well. Finally, Lydia Pintscher (Nightrose) and
Harald Sitter (apachelogger) held their talk about KDE Multimedia. It
became clear that KDE can deal perfectly with multimedia content.


The evening was great, too. Trolltech invited us and some other
KDE-related projects for dinner (Trolltech and friends) into the
Restaurant of the 12 Apostles in the city center of Berlin. The food was
great and there were a lot of interesting conversations. Afterwards
Kubuntu, Amarok and KDE went to a nearby Karaoke bar, as Harald had
wished for. It was directly below the famous Berlin TV tower at the Alex
(Alexanderplatz). The bar was named Alex, too, but not because it is at
the Alex - it's a national chain of bars. Aaron Seigo was the first
singer, and he sings great! But Scotti from FrOSCon wasn't bad at all,
either! One of the highlights was Stephan (\\sh - Kubuntu), Thomas
(Trolltech), Daniel (danimo - KDE), Aaron (aseigo - KDE) and Jono
(Ubuntu Community Manger) singing together.


[[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/135_1.thumbnail.jpg){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="75"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/135)]{.inline
.inline-right}Saturday, day 4: The last day began and again the LinuxTag
had to fight against the ILA and the beautiful weather. The first
highlight of the day was the talk by Lydia (Nightrose) und Sven Krohlas
(sven423) about Amarok 2.0, during which services, widgets and more were
shown. Other interesting talks were those by Daniel Holbach (dholbach)
about the topic "Master of the Universe: Ubuntu development and having
fun" and Jono Bacon with "Standing On The Shoulders Of Giants: The
Coming Of The Linux Desktop".


But everything has to come to its end and punctually at 6 p.m. the booth
started to be taken down. The Ubuntu barbecue was a nice closure. It
took place at the c-base, a U.F.O. that crashed some time ago in the
middle of Berlin, and was organized by Ubuntu Berlin. They did a really
good job and created a really nice evening for us, which we will all
remember. Thanks to Canonical, who, like last year, paid for the meat.
Aaron Seigo and some others from KDE were not there. But we had a chance
to get to know Thomas Zander (Trolltech) and the Ubuntu community
manager Jono Bacon more closely. There were also nice conversations
between the Kubuntu community and the Amarok people. The atmosphere was
absolutely fantastic. Shortly after 2 a.m. the first people started to
leave.


[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/206.thumbnail.jpg){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="67"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/206)
[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/212.thumbnail.jpg){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="67"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/212)
[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/210.thumbnail.jpg){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="67"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/210)
[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/216.thumbnail.jpg){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="67"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/216)
[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/227.thumbnail.jpg){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="67"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/227)
[![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/bilder/221.thumbnail.jpg){.image
.image-thumbnail width="100"
height="67"}](/bilder/events/linuxtag-2008/221)


Conclusion: The main problem was that there were no CDs delivered and
that there wasn't even information that there would be no CDs. Only
thanks to Paul Sladen we still got a couple by express delivery. Paul,
lots of thanks for that! The main interest of the visitors was
definitely KDE4 and we could show how good KDE 4.0 runs on Kubuntu.
Besides a lot of good talks, nice booths and booth staff, and
interesting projects, we had lots of fun within the Kubuntu community.
The language differences with our Swiss colleagues caused problems now
and then, but these could be solved. There was a very congenial
atmosphere within Kubuntu(-de.org), Amarok, KDE and Trolltech. New
contacts were made and existing ones were deepened so that some of us
will stay in regular contact. In the end everybody had collected new
impulses, ideas and a lot of motivation.


Lots of thanks to everybody who participated and gave support.



