Title: Reflections of the FrOSCon 2007
Date: 2007-09-02 13:25
Author: Monika Eggers
Tags: English
Slug: reflections-of-the-froscon-2007

Saturday morning, the second annual FrOSCon commenced. FrOSCon is a
conference that takes place at the Fachhochschule (Polytechnic College)
Bonn-Rhein-Sieg in St. Augustin near Bonn. Obviously, after the success
at the latest exhibitions, it would have been unacceptable not to
represent Kubuntu with its own booth. Consequently, early in the
morning, the first of us gathered in order to build up the booth.
Fortunately, we were located right next to KDE and Amorak. This gave us
the opportunity to jointly present the highlights from the Qt community.
Another group we welcomed in our section of the building was the musical
project Jad. Hence, our presentation was accompanied by nice background
music, taking into account one or the other erratic feedback.

</p>
<div align="center">

![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/FrOSCon07/01.jpg.png)
![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/FrOSCon07/02.jpg.png)
![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/FrOSCon07/05.jpg.png)

</div>

</p>
The surroundings of the exhibition location has apparently quite a lot
of Open Source Software users. Two of our volunteers are living close to
it and therefore we had very good contacts to the event organisers. Many
thanks to Thomas Erdmann (datten) and Sven Herfs (motti) for the
contributions before and during the exhibition.

</p>
<!--break--><!--break-->

There was some fear that the booth would look a little empty without the
Canonical Kubuntu posters that we had been using at the LinuxTag in
Berlin, and which had been sent to the Academy in Scotland. However, we
received ample material in form of Feisty Fawn Kubuntu CDs which
together with the already existing materials and our business cards
helped to create a visually pleasant and eye-catching booth. The
volunteers in our booth are convinced that it would be proper to claim
our booth being one of the best presented one in the whole exhibition. A
big benefit for this was certainly all the KDE merchandise presented on
the neighboring Amorak table and the impressive presentations of Amorak
2 by the development team. One of ours, Harald Sitter (apachelogger) is
also a member of this team. Hopefully, some of you have taken advantage
of the opportunity to see our booth through our webcam. We were able to
put up our webcam at the sidux booth opposite of us, while they placed
their webcam on our booth.

</p>
Despite our focus on Kubuntu, we also distributed Ubuntu CDs at the
exhibition we participate in. This, in particular, leads often to very
interesting discussions. As usual, there have been debates about the
advantages of the various desktops. These discussions always offer good
starting points for new users to ask questions. Furthermore, the talks
often develop into more far reaching topics of the spirit of the Open
Source movement and the muliplicity of the developments in the
community. Positively, these efforts gain new \*ubuntu users.

</p>
The KDE developers were responsible to give numerous very interesting
presentations about KDE4. Sebastian Kügler (sebas) gave a very
interesting introduction into this new KDE version. This meant a lack of
volunteers being able to be present at the KDE booth. Consequently, and
since Amorak's volunteers were very busy presenting Amorak 2, we had a
lot of opportunities to show KDE4 to visitors. This also created more
interest from our visitors for the adoption of KDE4 into Kubuntu. The
sponsorship of Newthinking Store in Cologne in form of a mini-PC allowed
us to demonstrate to our visitor not only feisty, but also gutsy. The
visitors had also the opportunity to use both versions themselves. Many
thanks to Thomas Braun for his support.

</p>
<div align="center">

![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/FrOSCon07/15.jpg.png)
![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/FrOSCon07/25.jpg.png)
![](http://www.kubuntu-de.org/files/FrOSCon07/29.jpg.png)

</div>

</p>
The social gathering on Saturday evening was introduced by the smell of
barbeque and Kölsch (the local beer). The event had the motto "Kölsch
0.2 (litre), Web 2.0". After the interest of the visitored had stalled
and we heard noises similar to wolves from the Amorak crew, we moved
from our booth to the courtyard and enjoyed ourselves. This open air
party was a very successful closure to the very successful day, even it
ended far to late.

</p>
Henceforth, the Sunday morning came far to quick and it could have been
feared that a hungover and tired community would not be capable of
acceptable presentations anymore. However, the rescue came in form of a
comprehensive breakfast buffet, which gave everybody the necessary
energy to cope with an even higher number of visitors than the day
before. Overall, the organisers and volunteers of the FrOSCon deserve
many praises for this interesting and community building event.

</p>
Kubuntu will surely be represented again next year.

</p>
More photographs from the FrOSCon can be found at
<http://www.kubuntu-de.org/bilder/events/froscon-2007>,

</p>

